>>> IN A LETTER TO THE CHAIRMAN
>>> IN A LETTER TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
OF THE HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE ELIJAH CUMMINGS REFUSING TO
ELIJAH CUMMINGS REFUSING TO TURNOVER ANY DOCUMENTS RELATED
TURNOVER ANY DOCUMENTS RELATED TO JARED KERRUSHNER AND IVANKA
TO JARED KERRUSHNER AND IVANKA TRUMP’S SECURITY CLEARANCES FOR
TRUMP’S SECURITY CLEARANCES FOR THE UNPRECEDENTED AND
THE UNPRECEDENTED AND EXTRAORDINARY DEMANDING
EXTRAORDINARY DEMANDING INCLUDING TO EXAMINE THE ENTIRE
INCLUDING TO EXAMINE THE ENTIRE INVESTIGATIVE SENIOR ADVISORS.
INVESTIGATIVE SENIOR ADVISORS. AS I’VE EXPLAINED IN MULTIPLE
AS I’VE EXPLAINED IN MULTIPLE PREVIOUS LETTERS IT ESTABLISHED
PREVIOUS LETTERS IT ESTABLISHED AS A MATTER OF LAW THAT THE
AS A MATTER OF LAW THAT THE DECISION TO GRANT OR DENY A
DECISION TO GRANT OR DENY A SECURITY CLEARANCE IS A
SECURITY CLEARANCE IS A DISCRETIONARY DECISION THAT
DISCRETIONARY DECISION THAT BELONGS EXCLUSIVELY TO THE
BELONGS EXCLUSIVELY TO THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.
EXECUTIVE BRANCH. JOINING US IS JOHN BRENNAN, HE’S
JOINING US IS JOHN BRENNAN, HE’S A SENIOR NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
A SENIOR NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ANALYST FOR MSNBC AND NBC NEWS.
ANALYST FOR MSNBC AND NBC NEWS. WHAT IS AT STAKE IN THIS
WHAT IS AT STAKE IN THIS SECURITY CLEARANCE CONTROVERSY
SECURITY CLEARANCE CONTROVERSY BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE WHITE
BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE WHITE HOUSE?
HOUSE? >> WELL, I THINK THE INTEGRITY
>> WELL, I THINK THE INTEGRITY OF THE SYSTEM OF THE SECURITY
OF THE SYSTEM OF THE SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCESS IS AT STAKE.
CLEARANCE PROCESS IS AT STAKE. IF THE REPORTS ARE TRUE, IT
IF THE REPORTS ARE TRUE, IT SOUNDS LIKE DONALD TRUMP OVER
SOUNDS LIKE DONALD TRUMP OVER RULED THE DETERMINATION THAT WAS
RULED THE DETERMINATION THAT WAS MADE BY THE INTELLIGENCE
MADE BY THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY THAT NEITHER IVANKA
COMMUNITY THAT NEITHER IVANKA TRUMP OR JARED KUSHNER SHOULD
TRUMP OR JARED KUSHNER SHOULD RECEIVE A CLEARANCE.
RECEIVE A CLEARANCE. IT’S UNHEARD OF A PRESIDENT OF
IT’S UNHEARD OF A PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES WOULD
THE UNITED STATES WOULD INTERVENE
INTERVENE INTERVENE.
INTERVENE. >> WHEN YOU SAY UNHEARD OF, IN
>> WHEN YOU SAY UNHEARD OF, IN YOUR DECADES ON GOVERNMENT
YOUR DECADES ON GOVERNMENT SERVICE, YOU’RE SAYING YOU
SERVICE, YOU’RE SAYING YOU PERSONALLY HAVE NEVER HEARD OF A
PERSONALLY HAVE NEVER HEARD OF A PRESIDENT DOING THIS.
PRESIDENT DOING THIS. >> I’VE NEVER HEARD OF A
>> I’VE NEVER HEARD OF A PRESIDENT TALKING ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT TALKING ABOUT THE SECURITY CLEARANCE OF AN VICHBLG
SECURITY CLEARANCE OF AN VICHBLG INDIVIDUAL MUCH LESS OVER
INDIVIDUAL MUCH LESS OVER RULING.
RULING. THIS IS UNPRECEDENTED AND THE
THIS IS UNPRECEDENTED AND THE FACT THAT HE DID THAT, DONALD
FACT THAT HE DID THAT, DONALD TRUMP, I THINK THE CONGRESS HAS
TRUMP, I THINK THE CONGRESS HAS LEGITIMATE CONCERNS ABOUT HOW HE
LEGITIMATE CONCERNS ABOUT HOW HE IS IN FACT EXERCISING A LEGAL
IS IN FACT EXERCISING A LEGAL AUTHORITY BUT DOING IT IN A
AUTHORITY BUT DOING IT IN A MANNER THAT REALLY UNDERMINES
MANNER THAT REALLY UNDERMINES AGAIN THE INTEGRITY AND THE
AGAIN THE INTEGRITY AND THE PURPOSE OF SECURITY CLEARANCES.
PURPOSE OF SECURITY CLEARANCES. >> WHAT ARE THE REASONS THAT
>> WHAT ARE THE REASONS THAT SECURITY CLEARANCES FOR SOMEONE
SECURITY CLEARANCES FOR SOMEONE LIKE JARED KUSHNER OR IVANKA
LIKE JARED KUSHNER OR IVANKA TRUMP WOULD BE HELD UP?
TRUMP WOULD BE HELD UP? WOULD BE THE KIND OF OBJECTIONS
WOULD BE THE KIND OF OBJECTIONS THAT WOULD BE RAISED?
THAT WOULD BE RAISED? >> IT COULD BE ANY NUMBER OF
>> IT COULD BE ANY NUMBER OF THINGS.
THINGS. THERE COULD BE UNRESOLVED ISSUES
THERE COULD BE UNRESOLVED ISSUES ABOUT FOREIGN ENG TANGLEMENTSTAN
ABOUT FOREIGN ENG TANGLEMENTSTAN EPISODES WHERE AN INDIVIDUAL IS
EPISODES WHERE AN INDIVIDUAL IS NOT DEEMED TRUSTWORTHY AND THE
NOT DEEMED TRUSTWORTHY AND THE SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCESS.
SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCESS. IT’S NOT SURPRISING GIVEN THE
IT’S NOT SURPRISING GIVEN THE NATURE OF THEIR FINANCIAL AND
NATURE OF THEIR FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS THAT ARE
BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS THAT ARE ON GOING IN FACT THAT THEY WERE
ON GOING IN FACT THAT THEY WERE DENIED.
DENIED. QUITE FRANKLY, I DON’T BELIEVE
QUITE FRANKLY, I DON’T BELIEVE DONALD TRUMP WOULD HAVE EXCEPT
DONALD TRUMP WOULD HAVE EXCEPT FOR GETTING MORE ELECTORAL VOTES
FOR GETTING MORE ELECTORAL VOTES THAN HILLARY CLINTON WOULD HAVE
THAN HILLARY CLINTON WOULD HAVE BEEN APPROVED FOR A SECURITY
BEEN APPROVED FOR A SECURITY CLEARANCE GIVEN THE FOREIGN
CLEARANCE GIVEN THE FOREIGN ENTANGLEMENTS AND CAVALIER
ENTANGLEMENTS AND CAVALIER TREATMENT OF CLASSIFIED
TREATMENT OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
INFORMATION. >> WHAT ARE THE THINGS THAT HOLD
>> WHAT ARE THE THINGS THAT HOLD UP A SECURITY CLEARANCE AT THIS
UP A SECURITY CLEARANCE AT THIS LEVEL?
LEVEL? HOW KNIT PICKY IS IT?
HOW KNIT PICKY IS IT? CAN IT BE SOMETHING LIKE, YOU
CAN IT BE SOMETHING LIKE, YOU KNOW, WE THINK HE DIDN’T TELL US
KNOW, WE THINK HE DIDN’T TELL US THE EXACT TRUTH ABOUT THE LAST
THE EXACT TRUTH ABOUT THE LAST TIME HE SMOKED MARIJUANA IN
TIME HE SMOKED MARIJUANA IN COLLEGE OR DOES IT HAVE TO RISE
COLLEGE OR DOES IT HAVE TO RISE TO A CERTAIN LEVEL TO BE A
TO A CERTAIN LEVEL TO BE A PROBLEM?
PROBLEM? >> I THINK ESPECIALLY FOR
>> I THINK ESPECIALLY FOR SOMEBODY WHO IS GOING TO BE IN
SOMEBODY WHO IS GOING TO BE IN THE WHITE HOUSE AS -- AT THE
THE WHITE HOUSE AS -- AT THE LEVEL OF ASSISTANCE TO THE
LEVEL OF ASSISTANCE TO THE PRESIDENT, YOU WANT TO MAKE SURE
PRESIDENT, YOU WANT TO MAKE SURE YOU DO EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO
YOU DO EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO TRY TO RESOLVE ANY OUTSTANDING
TRY TO RESOLVE ANY OUTSTANDING ISSUES.
ISSUES. BUT SOMETHING LIKE THAT, YOU
BUT SOMETHING LIKE THAT, YOU KNOW, IN TERMS OF NOT
KNOW, IN TERMS OF NOT ACKNOWLEDGING SMOKING MARIJUANA
ACKNOWLEDGING SMOKING MARIJUANA OR SOMETHING WILL NOT HOLD UP
OR SOMETHING WILL NOT HOLD UP THAT CLEARANCE.
THAT CLEARANCE. IT WILL HAVE TO BE SOMETHING
IT WILL HAVE TO BE SOMETHING SUBSTANTIAL AND SOMETHING THAT
SUBSTANTIAL AND SOMETHING THAT THE CIA, THE INVESTIGATORS
THE CIA, THE INVESTIGATORS REALLY WERE CONCERNED ABOUT
REALLY WERE CONCERNED ABOUT BECAUSE IT COULD POTENTIALLY
BECAUSE IT COULD POTENTIALLY COMPROMISE AN INDIVIDUAL EITHER
COMPROMISE AN INDIVIDUAL EITHER BECAUSE A FOREIGN PERSON OR
BECAUSE A FOREIGN PERSON OR ENTITY MIGHT TRY TO USE THAT
ENTITY MIGHT TRY TO USE THAT RELATIONSHIP INAPPROPRIATELY OR
RELATIONSHIP INAPPROPRIATELY OR THAT THE PERSON WHO IS BEING
THAT THE PERSON WHO IS BEING GRANTED THE SECURITY CLEARANCE
GRANTED THE SECURITY CLEARANCE OR CONSIDERATION MIGHT IN FACT
OR CONSIDERATION MIGHT IN FACT BE MINDFUL OF THOSE PERSONAL
BE MINDFUL OF THOSE PERSONAL INTERESTS THAT THEY MIGHT PURSUE
INTERESTS THAT THEY MIGHT PURSUE CONTRARY TO U.S. NATIONAL
CONTRARY TO U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY.
SECURITY. THEY TAKE THEIR JOBS SERIOUSLY.
THEY TAKE THEIR JOBS SERIOUSLY. I HAVE WORKED CLOSELY WITH THEM
I HAVE WORKED CLOSELY WITH THEM AND THEY WILL DO EVERYTHING
AND THEY WILL DO EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
POSSIBLE TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF AN ISSUE AND IF THEY DENY IT,
AN ISSUE AND IF THEY DENY IT, OUT RIGHT DENY IT AS OPPOSED TO
OUT RIGHT DENY IT AS OPPOSED TO CONTINUING TO TRY TO RESOLVE THE
CONTINUING TO TRY TO RESOLVE THE ISSUE, THERE MUST BE SOMETHING
ISSUE, THERE MUST BE SOMETHING SUBSTANTIAL AND SIGNIFICANT.
SUBSTANTIAL AND SIGNIFICANT. >> BASED ON WHAT YOU’VE SEEN OF
>> BASED ON WHAT YOU’VE SEEN OF MICHAEL COHEN’S PUBLIC TESTIMONY
MICHAEL COHEN’S PUBLIC TESTIMONY AND KNOWING HE’S GOING INTO THE
AND KNOWING HE’S GOING INTO THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE AGAIN TOMORROW FOR ANOTHER
AGAIN TOMORROW FOR ANOTHER CLOSED DOOR SESSION, DID YOU IN
CLOSED DOOR SESSION, DID YOU IN LISTENING TO MICHAEL COHEN’S
LISTENING TO MICHAEL COHEN’S PUBLIC TESTIMONY, DID YOU HEAR
PUBLIC TESTIMONY, DID YOU HEAR OF THINGS THAT YOU WOULD WANT TO
OF THINGS THAT YOU WOULD WANT TO BE EXPLORED IN THE PRIVATE
BE EXPLORED IN THE PRIVATE HEARINGS WITH THE INTELLIGENCE
HEARINGS WITH THE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE?
COMMITTEE? >> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. AS THE CONGRESSMAN SAID, IN THE
AS THE CONGRESSMAN SAID, IN THE PRIVATE MEETINGS WITHOUT THE
PRIVATE MEETINGS WITHOUT THE GLARE OF THE CAMERAS, THERE IS
GLARE OF THE CAMERAS, THERE IS MUCH MORE SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSION
MUCH MORE SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSION AND NO THOUGH ATEATER.
AND NO THOUGH ATEATER. THERE WAS DISCUSSION.
THERE WAS DISCUSSION. >> WHAT TABLET UTILIZED THE
>> WHAT TABLET UTILIZED THE FORMER CIA?
FORMER CIA? >> THINGS THAT COULDN’T BE
>> THINGS THAT COULDN’T BE DISCUSS THE IN THE CLOSED
DISCUSS THE IN THE CLOSED HEARING.
HEARING. THESE ARE MATTERS UNDER
THESE ARE MATTERS UNDER INVESTIGATION BY THE SOUTHERN
INVESTIGATION BY THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
DISTRICT OF NEW YORK. THERE ARE THREADS BEING PULLED
THERE ARE THREADS BEING PULLED THERE WAS CRIMINAL ACTIVITY
THERE WAS CRIMINAL ACTIVITY TAKING PLACE SO I’D WANT TO HEAR
TAKING PLACE SO I’D WANT TO HEAR MORE FROM MICHAEL COHEN ABOUT
MORE FROM MICHAEL COHEN ABOUT SOME OF HIS PERSONAL
SOME OF HIS PERSONAL INTERACTIONS WITH DONALD TRUMP
INTERACTIONS WITH DONALD TRUMP DURING THE CAMPAIGN AND EVEN
DURING THE CAMPAIGN AND EVEN SUBSEQUENT TO THE ELECTION AND
SUBSEQUENT TO THE ELECTION AND FIND OUT WHAT WAS THE NATURE
FIND OUT WHAT WAS THE NATURE OVERTHOSEOF
OVERTHOSEOF THOSE DISCUSSIONS BUT THE
THOSE DISCUSSIONS BUT THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S TEAM COUNSELED
SPECIAL COUNSEL’S TEAM COUNSELED MICHAEL COHEN NOT TO GET
MICHAEL COHEN NOT TO GET INVOLVED IN ISSUES THAT ARE A
INVOLVED IN ISSUES THAT ARE A MATTER OF CRIMINAL
MATTER OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION.
INVESTIGATION. >> ARE YOU ONE WILLING TO AT
>> ARE YOU ONE WILLING TO AT THIS STAGE OF THE GAME VENTURE A
THIS STAGE OF THE GAME VENTURE A GUESS ABOUT WHERE ROBERT MUELLER
GUESS ABOUT WHERE ROBERT MUELLER IS IN HIS PROCESS AND HOW CLOSE
IS IN HIS PROCESS AND HOW CLOSE HE IS TO FILING A REPORT AND
HE IS TO FILING A REPORT AND BEYOND THAT, WHAT YOU WOULD
BEYOND THAT, WHAT YOU WOULD EXPECT FROM SUCH A REPORT?
EXPECT FROM SUCH A REPORT? >> WELL, I THINK ROBERT MUELLER
>> WELL, I THINK ROBERT MUELLER WANTS TO BE ABLE TO CONCLUDE HIS
WANTS TO BE ABLE TO CONCLUDE HIS WORK AND TURNOVER THE
WORK AND TURNOVER THE INVESTIGATIVE THREADS TO THE
INVESTIGATIVE THREADS TO THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK,
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA AND
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA AND OTHER JURISDICTIONS AS
OTHER JURISDICTIONS AS APPROPRIATE
APPROPRIATE APPROPRIATE.
APPROPRIATE. WE’RE COMING UP TO TWO YEARS.
WE’RE COMING UP TO TWO YEARS. I THINK HE DOES WANT TO CONCLUDE
I THINK HE DOES WANT TO CONCLUDE THAT.
THAT. I WOULDN’T BE SURPRISED IF FOR
I WOULDN’T BE SURPRISED IF FOR EXAMPLE THIS WEEK ON FRIDAY NOT
EXAMPLE THIS WEEK ON FRIDAY NOT KNOWING ANYTHING ABOUT IT, BUT
KNOWING ANYTHING ABOUT IT, BUT FRIDAY IS THE DAY THE GRAND JURY
FRIDAY IS THE DAY THE GRAND JURY INDICTMENTS COME DOWN AND THIS
INDICTMENTS COME DOWN AND THIS FRIDAY IS BETTER THAN NEXT
FRIDAY IS BETTER THAN NEXT FRIDAY BECAUSE NEXT FRIDAY IS
FRIDAY BECAUSE NEXT FRIDAY IS THE 15th OF MARCH, WHICH IS THE
THE 15th OF MARCH, WHICH IS THE EYES OF MARCH AND I DON’T THINK
EYES OF MARCH AND I DON’T THINK ROBERT MUELLER WILL WANT TO HAVE
ROBERT MUELLER WILL WANT TO HAVE A DRAMATIC FLAIR OF THE EYES
A DRAMATIC FLAIR OF THE EYES OVERMASHLGOF
OVERMASHLGOF MARCH WHEN HE’LL BE DELIVERING
MARCH WHEN HE’LL BE DELIVERING THE FINAL INDIEPTDSCTMENTS AND R
THE FINAL INDIEPTDSCTMENTS AND R TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL. >> WHAT MAKES YOU BELIEVE HE HAS
>> WHAT MAKES YOU BELIEVE HE HAS MORE INDICTMENTS?
MORE INDICTMENTS? >> HE HASN’T ADDRESSED THE ISSUE
>> HE HASN’T ADDRESSED THE ISSUE OF CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY.
OF CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY. >> INVOLVING THE RUSSIANS?
>> INVOLVING THE RUSSIANS? >> YES.
>> YES. >> AND THAT’S AN AREA --
>> AND THAT’S AN AREA -- >> A PERSON --
>> A PERSON -- >> THAT IS AN AREA YOU KNOW
>> THAT IS AN AREA YOU KNOW SOMETHING ABOUT.
SOMETHING ABOUT. THAT WAS DEVELOPING WHILE YOU
THAT WAS DEVELOPING WHILE YOU WERE STILL ON THE JOB.
WERE STILL ON THE JOB. >> WELL, IT WAS IN TERMS OF
>> WELL, IT WAS IN TERMS OF LOOKING AT WHAT WAS GOING ON
LOOKING AT WHAT WAS GOING ON WITH THE RUSSIANS AND WHETHER OR
WITH THE RUSSIANS AND WHETHER OR NOT U.S. PERSONS WERE ACTIVELY
NOT U.S. PERSONS WERE ACTIVELY COLLABORATING, COLLUDING,
COLLABORATING, COLLUDING, COOPERATING AND INVOLVE IN A
COOPERATING AND INVOLVE IN A CONSPIRACY WITH THEM OR NOT BUT
CONSPIRACY WITH THEM OR NOT BUT ALSO IF THERE IS GOING TO BE ANY
ALSO IF THERE IS GOING TO BE ANY MEMBER --
MEMBER -- >> DID YOU SEE ENOUGH AT THAT
>> DID YOU SEE ENOUGH AT THAT STAGE TO BELIEVE THAT THERE
STAGE TO BELIEVE THAT THERE WOULD NOW, THAT THAT WOULD
WOULD NOW, THAT THAT WOULD RESULT IN INDICTMENTS ONCE
RESULT IN INDICTMENTS ONCE INVESTIGATED?
INVESTIGATED? >> I THOUGHT AT THE TIME THERE
>> I THOUGHT AT THE TIME THERE WAS GOING TO BE INDIVIDUALS WHO
WAS GOING TO BE INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE GOING TO HAVE ISSUES WITH
WERE GOING TO HAVE ISSUES WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. YES.
YES. I THINK WE’VE ALREADY SEEN A
I THINK WE’VE ALREADY SEEN A NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE
NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE BEEN INDICTED, EITHER HAVE PLEAD
BEEN INDICTED, EITHER HAVE PLEAD GUILTY OR HAVE BEEN CONVICTED
GUILTY OR HAVE BEEN CONVICTED NOW.
NOW. SO AGAIN, I DON’T HAVE ANY
SO AGAIN, I DON’T HAVE ANY INSIDE KNOWLEDGE.
INSIDE KNOWLEDGE. I’M NOT TALKING WITH ANYBODY --
I’M NOT TALKING WITH ANYBODY -- >> YES, YOU DO.
>> YES, YOU DO. YOU HAVE INSIDE KNOWLEDGE --
YOU HAVE INSIDE KNOWLEDGE -- >> NOT OF THE INVESTIGATION NOW
>> NOT OF THE INVESTIGATION NOW BUT IF ANYBODY FROM THE TRUMP
BUT IF ANYBODY FROM THE TRUMP FAMILY, EXTENDED FAMILY IS GOING
FAMILY, EXTENDED FAMILY IS GOING TO BE INDICTED, IT WOULD BE IN
TO BE INDICTED, IT WOULD BE IN THE FINAL ACT OF MUELLER’S
THE FINAL ACT OF MUELLER’S INVESTIGATION BECAUSE BOB MULLER
INVESTIGATION BECAUSE BOB MULLER AND HIS TEAM KNOWS IF HE WERE TO
AND HIS TEAM KNOWS IF HE WERE TO DO SOMETHING, INDICTING A TRUMP
DO SOMETHING, INDICTING A TRUMP FAMILY MEMBER OR IF HE WERE TO
FAMILY MEMBER OR IF HE WERE TO GO FORWARD WITH INDICTMENT ON
GO FORWARD WITH INDICTMENT ON CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY INVOLVING
CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY INVOLVING U.S. PERSONS, THAT WOULD BE THE
U.S. PERSONS, THAT WOULD BE THE DEATH OF THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S
DEATH OF THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S OFFICE BECAUSE I DON’T BELIEVE
OFFICE BECAUSE I DON’T BELIEVE DONALD TRUMP WOULD ALLOW BOB
DONALD TRUMP WOULD ALLOW BOB MUELLER TO CONTINUE IN THE
MUELLER TO CONTINUE IN THE AFTERMATH OF THOSE TYPES OF
AFTERMATH OF THOSE TYPES OF ACTIONS.
ACTIONS. >> JOHN BRENNAN, THANK YOU VERY